feat: draft docs for mainnet upgrade (#600)
vegaprotocol/documentation: docs/node-operators/migration-guides/upgrade-mainnet-to-0714.md

3. Initiate the data node config: `<VEGA-BIN> datanode init --archive --home=<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME> <CHAIN-ID> --force`
4. Modify generated data node config: `<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>config/data-node/config.toml` - see section below for important parameters

Use the `--archive` flag to keep all data, forever. Read more about the [data retention modes](../../concepts/vega-chain/data-nodes.md#data-retention-modes) available.

#### Data node config
Important config keys that you need to update/check: 

- `AutoInitialiseFromNetworkHistory` - We recommend setting it to `false` when you start the network from scratch (e.g. checkpoint restart), or if there is no other data node available.
- `ChainID` - Make sure it matches the new chain ID for your network.
- `Admin.Server.SocketPath` - Path for the Unix `sock` file; Ensure parent directory exists. Example may be `<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>/run/datanode.sock`.
- `API.CoreNodeIP` - IP of the server where the Vega core node is running. Often, it is `127.0.0.1.` (localhost).
- `API.CoreNodeGRPCPort` - Port you expose for the Vega core gRPC node. Default: `3002`.

> - `SQLStore.wipe_on_startup` - Defines if the data node removes data from the postgreSQL after the restart. We recommend setting it to `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `SQLStore.wipe_on_startup` - Defines if the data node removes data from the postgreSQL after the restart. We recommend deleting this, if it's in your config, as it has been deprecated and is not needed.
```

3. Initiate the data node config: `<VEGA-BIN> datanode init --archive --home=<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME> <CHAIN-ID> --force`
4. Modify generated data node config: `<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>config/data-node/config.toml` - see section below for important parameters

Use the `--archive` flag to keep all data, forever. Read more about the [data retention modes](../../concepts/vega-chain/data-nodes.md#data-retention-modes) available.

#### Data node config
Important config keys that you need to update: 

- `AutoInitialiseFromNetworkHistory` - We recommend setting it to `false` when you start the network from scratch (e.g. checkpoint restart), or if there is no other data node available.
- `ChainID` - Make sure it matches the new chain ID for your network.
- `Admin.Server.SocketPath` - Path for the Unix `sock` file; Ensure parent directory exists. Example may be `<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>/run/datanode.sock`.
- `API.CoreNodeIP` - IP of the server where the Vega core node is running. Often, it is `127.0.0.1.` (localhost).
- `API.CoreNodeGRPCPort` - Port you expose for the Vega core gRPC node. Default: `3002`.

> - `SQLStore.wipe_on_startup` - Defines if the data node removes data from the postgreSQL after the restart. We recommend setting it to `false`.

Reviewer 2: This flag is default false and deprecated, no need to update this

Reviewer: I think we should actually advise people to delete this manually if necessary - what do you think @ettec? That way there's no risk of them having something from a previous version>

Reviewer 2: yes, that would be better

- `SQLStore.UseEmbedded` - If true, internal (managed by the binary itself) postgreSQL is used. We strongly recommend setting it to `false` for production, as it is intended for testing only.
- `SQLStore.ConnectionConfig` - Update the entire section, as it is where you set PostgreSQL credentials.

> - `NetworkHistory.Enabled` - Enables IPFS network history. See the [network history](#a-bit-about-network-history) section below.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to specify that they should update this?  default is true,  I don't see any reason why we would want them to run with it false (?)

#### Example of the PostgreSQL connection section:

```toml
  [SQLStore.ConnectionConfig]
    Host = "localhost"
    Port = 5432
    Username = "<VEGA-DB-USER>"
    Password = "<VEGA-DB-PASS>"
    Database = "<VEGA-DB-NAME>"
```

#### A bit about network history
The network history feature allows you to get data into your data node (which acts as a rich API node) faster by fetching data from the other nodes instead of replaying it.

There is an entire section called `NetworkHistory` in the data node's `config.toml`. To use it, you must provide at least one other data node that exposes the IPFS node in the `NetworkHistory.Store.BootstrapPeers` parameter. If you do not provide that, you won't be able to use the IPFS-based network history.

Format of `BootstrapPeers`:

```
"/dns/<DATA-NODE-HOST>/tcp/<DATA-NODE-SWARM-PORT>/ipfs/<DATA-NODE-PEER-ID>"
```

Example `BootstrapPeers` value:

> **Do not use the below bootstrap peers as it is an example from a test network.**

Reviewer 2: Would it be worth mentioning you can hit a peers network history rest endpoint to source peer info? e.g

https://api.n00.testnet.vega.xyz/api/v2/networkhistory

yields:

`{"ipfsAddress":"/ip4/164.92.198.87/tcp/4001/p2p/12D3KooWNiWcT93S3P3eiHqGq4a6feaD2cUfbWw9AxgdVt8RzTHJ","swarmKey":"/key/swarm/psk/1.0.0/\n/base16/\n766567612d6661697267726f756e642d32303233303432363135313900000000","swarmKeySeed":"vega-fairground-202304261519","connectedPeers":["/ip4/159.203.12.201/tcp/4001/p2p/12D3KooWACJuzchZQH8Tz1zNmkGCatgcS2DUoiQnMFaALVMo7DpC","/ip4/139.59.0.80/tcp/4001/p2p/12D3KooWMSaQevxg1JcaFxWTpxMjKw1J13bLVLmoxbeSJ5gpXjRh","/ip4/104.248.42.237/tcp/4001/p2p/12D3KooWDy26YcZVTPbYCmZu3Jukp7Ygjf33ksXTV6GENNowiqBa","/ip4/104.248.42.237/tcp/51338/p2p/12D3KooWDy26YcZVTPbYCmZu3Jukp7Ygjf33ksXTV6GENNowiqBa","/ip4/139.59.0.80/tcp/58318/p2p/12D3KooWMSaQevxg1JcaFxWTpxMjKw1J13bLVLmoxbeSJ5gpXjRh"]}`

the value of ipfsAddress field in the above output can be used as a bootstrap peer

Reviewer: This looks good, but if someone is in the process of upgrading, will this URL work for mainnet? Or do they all need to upgrade before this is available and thus they can only use it after this version?

Reviewer: @ettec hopefully something we can remember to improve in the docs for a future upgrade

#### Example of the Vega service file

```toml
# /lib/systemd/system/vega.service

[Unit]
Description=vega
Documentation=https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega
After=network.target network-online.target
Requires=network-online.target

[Service]
User=vega
Group=vega
ExecStart="<VEGA-BIN>" start --home "<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>" --tendermint-home "<TENDERMINT-HOME>" --nodewallet-passphrase-file "<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>/all-wallet-passphrase.txt"
TimeoutStopSec=10s
LimitNOFILE=1048576
LimitNPROC=512
PrivateTmp=true
ProtectSystem=full
AmbientCapabilities=CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

#### Example of the data node service file

```
# /lib/systemd/system/data-node.service

[Unit]
Description=tendermint
Documentation=https://github.com/vegaprotocol/vega
After=network.target network-online.target
Requires=network-online.target

[Service]
User=vega
Group=vega
ExecStart="<VEGA-BIN>" datanode start --home "<VEGA-NETWORK-HOME>"
TimeoutStopSec=10s
LimitNOFILE=1048576
LimitNPROC=512
PrivateTmp=true
ProtectSystem=full
AmbientCapabilities=CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### 16. Install/Upgrade PostgreSQL for data node

> If you are running a data node, you will need to install or upgrade PostgreSQL. The PostgreSQL instance must be on the same server as the data node, as the PostgreSQL does data-snapshot in the data node location file space. The data node uses PostgreSQL snapshots for the network history feature.

Reviewer 2: `The PostgreSQL instance must be on the same server as the data node, as the PostgreSQL does data-snapshot in the data node location file space`  -  The data snapshot process no longer relies on being in the same location file space, although having said that, afaik we have not tested thoroughly - so we should probably stick with the recommendation for now - but not for the reason given.
